In the aftermath of a trauma,
the human body has one amazing instinct...
survival.
Even when it appears
as though nothing's happening,
white blood cells spring to life
to fight infection,
tissue repairs itself, and the heart...
keeps beating.
Emotional scars can be
more difficult to heal,
but we do our best
by renewing old friendships...
creating joyful moments...
or trying new things.
To make us feel like
we're doing something,
even if we feel helpless.
But through it all,
as long as our hearts keep beating...
we survive.
And that's my latest post.
It's number 50 since the bus crash.
Blink once if you totally loved it.
Did you just...
Can you hear me?
Tristan, can you hear me?
Someone, come quick!
He just... he just moved!
♪ Whatever it takes
I know I can make it through ♪
♪ And if I hold out
♪ Be the best, be the best
The best that I can be ♪
♪ Whatever it takes ♪
♪ I know I can make it
I know I can make it through ♪
Hurry up.
School starts in an hour.
Wow.
What do you think of my first day outfit?
I want to say "best year ever."
Why not just get a T-shirt
with that phrase printed on it?
Laa-shokran.
That means "No, thank you" in Arabic.
I have learned a little so I can help make
the Syrians feel more welcome.
All of them?
Or just the ladies?
All of them.
We didn't spend the summer raising
60 grand so I could get a date, Grace.
That's a lot of clubs.
Yeah, ten more than last year.
Tristan would be proud.
He'd also want me to be president.
Hey, Zoë won last spring's
special election, fair and square.
I really thought he'd be better by now
and would be here to take over.
I'm sure he'll be back soon enough.
Then he can give you
some tips on how to pick up...
your presidential dry cleaning.
Well, I gotta get my stuff for class.
I will meet you at lunch to get
the food ready for the welcome barbecue.
Goldi doesn't know I'm gay.
So?
Well, I can't tell just anyone.
- You still haven't told your mom.
She just got engaged, and she was so proud
when I won that election.
You'll have to tell her eventually.
But right now, I need to focus on making
everything great for the new school year.
Then I'll tell her...
when I go away to college.
What's Arabic for "terrible idea"?
We have spare together!
SP 301?
Lola, "S," science. "P," physics.
Grade 11.
Ooh!
You're breaking my heart, Shay.
He's really here.
How do I look?
It might be kind of weird.
You haven't seen him all summer.
You look great.
Go.
Okay.
Hey, Tiny, kiss her!
Kiss her!
-Would you get lost?
-Will you? She's waiting for it.
-Aren't they the cutest?
-Suddenly, I can't wait to get to physics.
Hey. Are you guys having trouble
posting things today?
Only with Mom commenting on photos
of me and Yael, calling us "cute."
Are you saying we're not cute?
Yeah. Well, look, it's not letting me post
my Tristan update to the Degrassi page.
I mean, can you... can you fix this?
Uh, not without violating the terms
of Hunter's parole. Sorry.
As if being back
at school isn't scary enough,
now there's gonna be a bunch
of strange new people?
They're just Syrians.
To them, you're the strange one.
Hey, Hunter! Yael!
Good summer?
- Good summer.
- Hi, Mr. Simpson.
-Hey, Miles. Welcome back.
-Hey. Yeah.
Uh, Principal Simpson, is there something
wrong with the Degrassi community page
today, or--
Oh, right. Yes. Um... we had some
complaints about your posts.
Some people find them upsetting...
Wait. Did you... did you...
You blocked me?
Look, I just...
Listen, after the bus crash,
everyone's trying their best to heal.
Dude, you think I don't know that?
I mean, I'm the... I'm living it.
I just wanna avoid
anything triggering, Miles.
Okay. But look, regardless, this...
This time, it's good news.
Right. Great. So why don't you
tell your friends in person
and you can see the happy reaction
on their faces instead of on a screen.
Okay? All right.
I'll talk to you later.
Welcome to Degrassi.
Hi! Are you one of our
new students from Syria?
Welcome to Degrassi.
We'll be starting our tour soon.
Yep, a safe space for everyone...
except our president, who's stuffing
herself back into the closet.
I'm just not coming out to my mom.
I can still be out at school.
How will anyone know? You don't exactly
have rainbow emojis in your bios.
My mom follows me on everything.
Just tell your mom.
It'll be okay.
She's super Catholic.
It most definitely will not.
Oh, come on. No one has a problem
with gay people anymore.
We have a problem with the QSA.
-Who?
-The Queer-Straight Alliance.
It used to be called the LGBT Club.
We have a problem with...
gay people.
What is going on?
A kiss-in, which we're staging
until you give us back our office.
This is the prayer room now.
Uh, we gave you a different office.
A converted janitor's closet.
How ironic.
We just want our new Muslim students
to have a central location
within the school.
So let us share the room.
These students are coming from Syria.
They're likely more conservative,
and they're just not used to seeing, uh...
Gay people?
Some of them might be gay.
No.
So because they're more intolerant,
they get the better room?
Is our student council seriously
just a bunch of cowardly homophobes?
I am not homophobic.
I can't be.
-Why not?
-I'm gay.
You?
The LGBT community
have already won their fights.
Can't we just focus on making
the newcomers feel at home?
I have a tour to do,
then get hot dogs
for the welcome barbecue.
Hope to see you all there.
So you guys combined
protesting and kissing?
I've got to get in on this.
It was pretty sweet.
Speaking of kissing,
did you see Shay and Tiny this morning?
They're, like,
the cutest couple in school.
She's cute. But him?
Is it a cumulative score?
They're not that cute.
Okay?
Me and Tiny are way cuter.
I totally forgot you two dated.
And you haven't purged the photos yet?
Figured you would've moved on.
I have, but...
Doesn't mean I should forget
how cute we were.
You may be asking...
is it illegal to look this good?
Well, get ready to find out that answer
in Grade 11 law.
We'll begin this unit by discussing
legal considerations
for social networking users.
You should always act appropriately
when posting online because you are liable
for sharing anything
that contains defamatory content or...
You know, I almost didn't recognize you
without your cast on.
Yeah, it still feels weird
to have it off.
I thought Maya was in this class.
Yeah, I actually haven't seen her all day.
Okay, guys.
Come on, who, uh, who narced to Simpson?
Hmm?
Apparently, my updates
about my boyfriend's health
were just maybe getting
a bit too much for the...
delicate flowers in the room.
So who was it?
I, for one, am glad
they aren't popping into my timeline.
Are you... Are you...
You kidding me right now?
They did get kind of personal.
Well, like, yeah.
I mean...
my boyfriend nearly died, right?
I mean, how could that not be personal?
She means it was sad to watch you
delude yourself all summer.
Well, he's getting better.
Okay?
He squeezed my hand
while I was reading to him.
Uh, that's great!
Yeah!
--That's what I mean.
What actually happened?
He went like this?
Yes, exactly.
Probably some leftover signals
in the nervous system. Involuntary.
No. No, the doctors were all over it.
Why would they lie to me?
- So you don't off yourself?
I'll pretend I didn't hear that.
Let's stay positive, folks!
To limber up
our creative muscles this year,
we're gonna start
with a classic first-person story.
"What I did on my summer vacation."
Now this'll be an exercise
in more showing rather than telling.
If we hurry,
we can still make it back in time.
Did I make a huge mistake
with how I handled the QSA?
No, I think pretending you were gay
was a great, masterful play.
-It wasn't a play. I am gay.
-Really?
You don't look gay.
I mean, I'm cool with it,
just so you know.
I mean, I was Tristan's VP last year.
I know it's kind of weird
that I was VP last year,
and then you won the by-election, and
so I'm VP again this year. But it's fine.
- All of it. It's fine.
Okay.
Why is my phone blowing up?
Bunch of notifications.
About what?
Tristan?
My passcode is 1234.
Open it.
- Okay. Not the time!
- Ooh.
Our president is a self-hating gay,
who'll let people trample over our rights
like it's 1999.
-Oh, my God.
-Okay. I wouldn't worry about it.
-Oh, my God! Oh, my God...
-Vijay's a part of my brother's vlog crew,
and he's not exactly viral.
My mom doesn't know I'm gay!
They tagged me in it.
What if it gets to her?
I need to untag it before she sees.
--Zoë, it's fine--
Hi. Miles.
- Oh. Mrs. Milligan.
- You're early today.
Has his doctor been by yet?
I don't know
that his doctor's coming today.
-He keeps getting better.
-That's what we hope. Yeah.
Did the doctors say that...
they hope he is?
Or that... that he is?
It's complicated, honey.
Did he really grab my hand?
It's common for coma patients
to exhibit that kind of auto-response,
is what the doctors said.
Do they think
that he's gonna be normal again?
They think that ten weeks is a long time
to be in a coma at this level.
It's the school year, honey.
Maybe you should get back to your friends.
No, he needs me.
I'll leave you two alone.
How dead am I?
Zoë!
Oh, God! Oh.
You talk.
I'll survey the damage.
I'm so, so, so, so sorry.
Oh, I hope so. The car was expensive.
Phil didn't have to buy it for you.
I've just been under a lot of pressure
trying to be a good president,
and then these kids were saying that--
Oh, you mean that horrible video?
Oh, honey, no.
I get it.
I wouldn't want anyone saying those
awful things about me, either.
But I wouldn't worry about it.
Okay?
No one's gonna believe you're gay.
It happens to all powerful women.
Even Hillary.
It'll pass.
Uh, there'll be a small deductible but,
otherwise, I think it's gonna be okay.
More importantly, will you?
Come...
Let's do fashion club this year.
Didn't we agree on cross country?
Yeah, but I thought that we could
do something, you know, just us girls.
No boyfriends.
Jonah might be super into fashion.
You don't know.
Take down the photo, Lo.
Why?
What's the big deal?
It's of you and my boyfriend.
Yeah, it's a Throwback Thursday,
as in, in the past,
when he wasn't your boyfriend.
-Tell her, Franks.
-Uh...
Tell Lola that posting a romantic photo
with my boyfriend is out of bounds!
Uh...
Whatever. You're wrong,
and everyone will side with me.
Okay.
Let's jump right in.
When judges get a case
about social media,
they often have to have
the app explained to them,
which is like,  hmm,
dealing with a case of mail fraud,
but not knowing what a stamp is.
So, for young defendants and plaintiffs...
Okay.
What's going on here?
I'm not moving on till someone tells me.
Vijay?
Shay and Lola are sending
indirects to each other.
You see, an indirect message is when
you chirp at someone without actually--
I know what it is.
I'm not that old.
But why is it happening in class?
I posted a photo and Shay doesn't think
that should be allowed.
All right. Since you're all
too distracted to listen to me...
-let's try this case.
-What?
I hereby open the proceedings
of The People v. Lola Pacini.
That's it.
My mom hates me.
Technically, she still doesn't know.
But either I never tell her,
and we have this secret between us,
or I do, and she hates me.
I'm trapped.
Maybe you can cut your way out.
If she'd really be that awful,
then you don't need her in your life.
But it's always
just been the two of us.
She's the only family I have.
You're not thinking
about hurting yourself again, are you?
Sorry to interrupt, but the QSA
has not given up their protest yet.
I won't put them back in that closet.
-What about the prayer room?
-They'll share.
I can't make the QSA hide.
I have to be a good president
for everyone.
If there's an actual conflict,
we can talk about it then.
If only you could be that badass
for yourself.
And did you pretend
the photo was recent?
No. I clearly marked it a TBT.
So, no one who saw it would still imagine
-you two were still dating--
-Uh, objection.
She couldn't know if anybody
might imagine that.
- Um, sustained?
- Withdrawn.
One more thing.
You took the photo, it was on your phone
and you posted it to your account. Right?
Yeah, it was a selfie.
So, as the subject, artist, and publisher,
there's no legal reason
you couldn't post it, right?
I don't think so. No.
Your witness.
Miss Pacini...
did you ask your BFF if you could post
a picture of you with her boyfriend?
Objection.
Relevance?
We've established Lola owns the photo.
Your Honor, I'm just trying to prove
an element of emotional damage.
Sustained, I guess?
I didn't ask. No.
Perhaps because you wanted to provoke
a reaction from her?
What? No!
I just thought we looked cute!
And you wanted to threaten Shay
with said cuteness?
Because you still have feelings for him!
Because you stole him from me!
Go to hell!
- Whoa.
- Language! Office, Ms. Pacini.
I'd like to request a recess.
What are you doing?
You can't just wreck stuff.
- Who cares?
I bet that teacher will.
Quick!
It's... it's just such a huge lie.
There's no such thing
as a safe space for everyone.
No kidding.
Everyone thinks
I should pretend I'm not sad,
just because Shay's happy.
It's, like, we're hurting,
and we're not allowed
to talk about our pain,
because it makes them uncomfortable.
What?
We have to care about everyone's feelings,
unless our feelings are hurting
their feelings,
then we're not allowed to have
any feelings.
Yeah, it's crap.
Exactly.
And that would have been
a more appropriate word to say in class.
And, uh, when we danced,
the kids all cheered for us.
I got to admit, I kind of teared up.
After the crash,
I just felt lucky to be there.
Very nice, Zig.
Very nice.
Miles, you ready?
I have visual aids.
Is that okay?
This is what I did on my vacation.
June 5th, I watched the doctors
carve a hole into my boyfriend's skull--
-Miles, take that down!
-Have you ever loved somebody
so much that you just wished
you could take all their pain
- and give it to yourself?
- Miles!
'Cause if you haven't,
then it's impossible for you
to understand how much it is important
that we don't just give up on Tristan.
You're a sadist.
Just because everybody leaves you
doesn't mean he's leaving me, okay?
Hey! Hey!
- Come on. Let's go.
Let's all go!
Except you, Miles.
- Hey.
-Have you seen Maya?
-Uh, no. You?
No. Here comes Zoë's big speech.
Marhaba.
"Welcome."
I extend this to all of our new students
from near and far.
We all have one thing in common...
We wanna be loved for who we are.
We need to celebrate our differences.
For instance... I'm gay.
I'm not bragging about it but...
I've always been afraid to say it
and I'm not anymore.
I want this place to be a safe space
where everyone feels free
to be themselves.
Yeah.
Welcome to Degrassi.
You are such a badass.
You're not still worried about
this getting back to your mom, are you?
Nah. She wouldn't believe it
unless she caught me
making out with a girl.
And I can't even find a girl
to make out with, so...
Zoë, this is Rasha.
She's staying with our family.
Hi. Uh, you're the one
who put the queer students' club
in the same room
as the Muslim prayer space?
Yes. Yes, I did.
That would never have happened in Syria.
Very cool.
Come here.
--Best year ever, indeed.
Po-po caught up to you after all?
No, actually.
I acted up in class,
kind of thanks to your wise words.
You know, you can talk to me about Tristan
all you want.
As long as I can talk to you about Tiny.
Okay, this is detention, not NPR.
No talking for the next hour.
I'm... I'm so glad I found someone
who understands my grief.